We are
back building digging sim with Spencer.
Hello Spencer. What's up?
Let me make sure this thing on my leg is
not a tick.
Oh yeah. You know that storm yesterday?
Yeah. How how your land hold up and
everything? Land is fine, but uh yeah,
that was apparently a tornado and it
killed nine people. Jesus. Yeah.
So, uh, probably a good thing I didn't
decide to go out for a run in that.
Yeah.
Jeez. Oh, lord. I was like until it
starts like thundering. I was super
tempted to as well cuz it's like my damn
favorite thing to do is run in uh in
heavy rain.
Well, be glad you did. Yeah. Yeah.
probably would have dropped a branch on
my head. There's uh a portion of the
path that I go Well, there's actually a
good chunk of the path that I go through
is like under a ton of
trees. All right. Um, you have a render
to
PR? I mean, I can.
Yeah, it's not the prettiest, but it's
functional.
All right. Yeah, let's make for it.
Okay. Ender PR.
You pushed something earlier. Yeah. So,
I need to sync up. Yeah. I gave you
digging. Uh, I give you dozer. Dozer.
Dozer is not yet, but land
is I wish we could like go recruit Costa
and like put him on some C cuz I bet you
that he would uh I bet you like anything
you put Costa on, he just like makes 10x
simpler.
got to suck the recruiting effort.
I'm sure he's he's probably going to do
his start his own thing or something
would be my guess. He's uh yeah, he's he
has a very particular set of skills.
You got PR? No PR. No PR. Patience.
Patience.
Patience is not a virtue and I have
none. All right. Was that the only merge
conflict?
Yeah. Make sure it still renders
properly.
There's no reason why it shouldn't.
Oh my god, what just happened? I'll be
able to render this
time. Why did this camera just like
explode?
All right, we're going to turn off this
weird camera control thing for now and
I'll send it over to
you. I'll make a change to it in a sec,
but I'll just send this to you. So, you
have something to start with.
PR. I think as soon as we get like the
basics of this, it's going to start
looking really cool and it's going to be
like super fun to to dev this terraform
right there. There you
go. Good.
Uh, you actually added like controls and
[ __ ] Okay,
I had to come comment out the controls
on one part. It's being weird.
All right, so we will uh merge your pull
request.
the the controls that will work for now
is the zooming in and out, but I got to
get the the mouse position like drag
thing
better being weird cuz we're using it's
like using different dimensions now cuz
[ __ ] the controls for this
um you just have mouse wheel zoom in
zoom out and you should be able to stare
at the the
thing. Let me pull up your stream so I
can see what you're doing. Mouse is like
inverted or
something. It's this thing for now,
right?
Mhm. Oh, does your Oh, your thing's kind
of doing correctly. What
did you did you uncomment the the
dragging stuff? No, it didn't look
commented in the PR though.
Well, it's backwards is the thing. It's
really like jank. Oh, just make it
a All right. So, we have this thing and
then like presumably
it just needs lighting is all like it
needs lighting in order to work
correctly, right?
um in order to like see like are you
talking about like well we can't shadows
are forcibly not shadows it's not
shadows it's the it's like the angle
right it's like so that you get
different shading on different angles
yeah I can do that well I guess it's
it's not really going to do much
until I guess it'll already kind of do
something I mean cool there's the end
though um wait why is it that small
cuz it's that small. It's 11 by 11. But
I messed that up.
big. Okay. Well, now the camera
centering is like completely screwed or
something because it doesn't there's
nothing that shows up if I make it
So, we need to get like the basics of
this thing, I think, before we can do um
figure out the really the digging
pieces,
right? Let me figure out how we would
render
render a height map.
All right, let me mess with
the the size thing that you
did. All right. Why is size being funky?
All right, I fixed it.
Okay,
it's a it's a change you can just do on
your end. Um, what is it?
What you do is you look in the make
client line 185 a nit window. Just make
it a fixed 800 by 600.
Okay. So, I mean, we can't really see
what the hell's going on here. And like
the controls are backwards and things,
but that's something.
Also, I think it's like there's not very
much variation in the height, is there?
No, there's not. You have to change the
factor to be Yeah. Um, okay. I think I
changed it to one over four, but just
make it like two or something.
Well, there are two things happening,
right? So, there's the pearl and noise,
the math height, and then there's the
render height.
Um, well, render height's just one right
now.
Or it just it just like a one. It's
based off the exact value. It's one to
one. So, if you add a multiplier to it,
I mean, you probably could see massive
differences, but that wouldn't be like
accurate, per say. Yeah. All right. So,
let's
like
Yeah. All right. Can you figure that
stuff out? I'm gonna see if I I'm gonna
see if I can figure out this like
meshing. Yeah. Make it like all sorts of
choppy.
Like make it look like some hills or
whatever, right? Not like choppy. You
want like some hills. All right.
Does Okay, so Red Lib does have a thing
for this.
interesting. Going to do this locally so
I can actually render things.
I think whoever told me to keep my neck
spray was on to this something because
[ __ ] everything kind of
hurts. This uh this setup is not exactly
complete
yet. All right, I'm back. I uh got my
Chick-fil-A.
Chick-fil-A at 9:36 a.m.
Yeah. Breakfast Chick-fil-A, dude. They
got spicy chicken biscuits. All right. I
had a lot of Chick-fil-A in my uh
undergrad. No, not undergrad in PhD.
My breakfast included a full pot of
coffee.
Did you
um My next thing was going to work on
making it look decent with hills. Did
you said you when I was walking away, I
overheard you saying something like Oh,
I'm looking into the mesh gen. I'm
trying to figure out mesh gen stuff
right now.
So, yeah. get the terrain to like
generate correct heights while I mess
with this uh this mesh gen to see if we
can have like instead of just drawing
cubes.
width
length res x Let's see.
Okay. Then I got to figure out what the
mesh is.
I feel like I'm not getting a lot of
good values from this preent noise right
now. So there's octaves and then there's
the frequency.
Okay, I
found
something.
What is the role of octaves verse
frequency in Berlin noise?
So
octaves octave is how many different
waveforms get summed together like you
get like
a kind of like a hilly map out of each
octave. Uh but they're at different
frequencies. Some of them are like going
to be like very bumpy. Some of them are
going to be like big hills, right? And
then the frequency defines
um like actually how big or how small
the hills are like how like spread
together pushed apart they are.
the frequency you said does that. Yeah.
So like probably like I don't know two
to four octaves and then play with the
frequency until you get something that
looks
reasonable. It's probably not going to
generate data in like the height scale
that you're looking for though. Like you
might have to multiply the height the
thing. Yeah, that's what I did. I'm
adding a a height scale factor.
And I'm just going to make it
giganto. And then I think I just need
more things to end
probably cuz I think what's going to
happen is you're just going to end with
gaps. You know what I mean? Uh what do
you mean gaps?
like between the space of
Oh, well, we're going to make we're
going to get like a proper mesh renderer
for this thing.
Cuz if I'm just drawing cubes, I think
what it will do is just spawn cubes far
apart from each other if you go super
arguably.
Well, it's that's going to be done by
the height map thing,
right? Okay. So, I found the
implementation of this
Okay, so now we have the source code for
how they generate meshes.
Okay,
so I think I can just like take this and
we can edit this to not have to load
from a freaking
I got to say race's getting a few
demerits for the uh new line curly
braces.
Okay. Like, yeah,
maybe maybe
this. We will see.
troll? Everything's the same color.
like can't tell the difference. Yeah,
we'll fix that. There's actually cuz we
can actually get um we're going to be
able to apply like a a checker texture
to it super
easily. Going to be
nice. Right. So, we've got this mesh and
[Music]
then come
probably like draw a mesh or something,
right?
Model then it is
position probably
like rotation or some weird
this. There we go. Yeah, that's
literally it.
Unload image
colors. Probably don't need this.
Why did this thing auto complete?
This did not work. Why did this thing
auto
complete? Uh yeah, that's literally not
how not how C works. Nice job, Super
Maven.
Uh,
okay. I
mean, not quite what we're going for,
but let's see if we can get this thing
checkerboard textured.
Yeah, I got a similar thing right now
going on mine.
There's
um checkerboard texture
this. Why is it that when you block
YouTube
messages Oh, you have to add to the
other block list. There we go. That gets
this messages off my screen.
major. This will start looking cool, I
think, as soon as I get the
um textures applied.
that checked
texture. Oh yeah.
Okay. It's just
think Oh, dude, that doesn't bother me
at all.
Like, imagine having nothing better to
do with your day.
checkerboard is a checkerboard.
I got a similar thing going as well, but
I'm not seeing like with what with the
Are you drawing rectangles though? No,
I'm using the gen height mesh from Ray
Live. Oh, okay. So I just I don't know
why we're duplicating work. So I just
did the same thing. I modified that
function so that it wouldn't we wouldn't
have to go through an image.
Yeah. I mean, but I feel like you and I
are both have like a similar issue right
now where it's kind of hard to
determine. I don't think I just don't
think there is a decent height on this
thing,
right?
No, I know. And that's I'm trying to
mess with that via screwing with height
scaling, but even then it's like not
getting a All right. Well, let's figure
that out.
I have a different version than you, I
guess.
But feel like the heights should be like
crazy, but they're really not.
factor. Well, there you go. That's
sufficiently spiky.
Now it's like
now it's like ultra spicy.
Well, probably
need frequency.
Look.
See, it's actually
right? Well, okay. Okay. I think your
version is like much cleaner than mine
right now because when I try and do
something like that, the checkerboard is
not checkering hard enough. I mean, I
don't know. I was worried that after
I've been letting you write all the Sims
for a while, you know, I was going to be
rusty,
All right. Push up your stuff and let me
and then Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One sec. Let
me give you the original scale which was
the originally correct
number. All right. So this is this and
then let's give
you height map
like I don't know like two
mesh.
Holy We want
Wait.
Huh?
confused. Yeah, I think we uh I think
that this pearl and noise function is
kind of screwy. So, we're going to leave
this at two for
now and then we'll give you this. I
mean, I feel like two created like a
decent. All right. So, I'm going to give
you this mesh to play with. All right.
I'm going to see if I can fix the uh
pearl
noise generation function.
Yeah, this is hilly as [ __ ]
Think we can terraform it?
Yeah, dude.
We got to make it look like Mars.
My lord. Just like freaking do all this
stuff.
All right. So, what did you do for this?
Did you find some function online?
Huh? No. I just I took the source for
the like you were looking at the same
function. It's just I took the source of
it. Oh, I actually By the way, I like we
have real terrain now. Look at this
[ __ ] Look at this. It's like actually
multi octave pearling.
Oh, let me look at your stream
proper.
Oh, I'm not live. Okay, that was why I
was tripping out. So, this is what
Pearl's actually supposed to do for you.
See how it's like multi octave?
Mhm. That's some Mars
terrain. There you go. That's more
reasonable to work with. Yeah. There you
go.
Uhhuh. You can't leave it on green,
obviously.
I sense a puffer color coming. Puffer
colors.
Are you trying to change your angle or
you just your
Trying to just get something that we can
like see the whole terrain without
having to just roll every
time. All right, that's not
Arguably that's like really difficult to
work with terrain. Oh yeah.
Like most sites are not going to be that
hilly unless you're like trying to build
a neighborhood and like unless you're
trying to terraform Mars.
I mean, I'm just saying.
All right. All right. If we're talking
about that's that'll be a trillion
dollar operation, right?
Two trillion. Two trillion.
Yeah. How many trillions is that? What
they say it's going to take to terraform
Mars initially? I don't know. I have no
idea. We're just making up numbers.
Yeah. The number has to be like a lot.
Dumb and conceivably large. All right.
Yeah. Just write us write us a check.
We'll build it. We'll build a simp.
We'll do it. We'll do it. I'll do it.
just fund uh just fund research
permanently and you know also maybe some
gym
equipment. The stupid rogue uh 10 pound
plates are like hundred something bucks
a pair. Like just it's it's just
ridiculous.
That is more expensive than I would have
bought.
Yeah. And I totally do not need to be
using calibrated plates on a log
either. All
right. So,
uh, drawing dozers, man. Dozer time.
Let's get the dozer moving around the
thing.
Yeah.
So, we probably want to gen the instead
of scaling the
height. We're going to make it one to
one, I think.
And then are you just going to scale it
in the map? No, I'm doing I'm doing it
right I'm fixing it to
Wait, you have a Oh, that's a different
scale. Oh, that's a normaliz. Yeah,
that's a normalized.
Arguably, should you apply your scale to
the post-normalized version?
Yeah. Okay, that's what you should do.
All right, that's like that's good.
That's like now actually what we see. So
now we can render the dozer on top of
this thing.
Yeah, because at least now we can have
interactions with it that aren't like
separated.
We do like four.
Did you find a dozer model? No, I need
dozer.
All right, let
me What are you doing now? We are
building a digging
simulator. We're going to try to get uh
we're going to get like generate some
height maps. Uh make some bulldozers and
see if they can like adjust the height
map over time. If they can learn to do
that.
found a really low poly one. We want low
poly.
Where my dozer at?
I'm going I have to log into my account
to download
it. I don't see any dozes.
You want to just download it yourself to
save the time of me shipping it to you?
Um, I can get it. Well, maybe I'm just
I'm just going to link it to you. All
right.
General chat. There you go. Turbo Squid.
All right. Well, I haven't gotten
anything to render yet.
I don't know if they're like underneath.
They don't look to
be. Oh, you know what it is? We didn't
set numbum agents.
Oh,
yeah. That was a I had an issue that was
plaguing me in the beginning when I
couldn't get things to work. Yeah, it's
just called being a noob.
I um I was trying to figure out why my
camera wasn't moving and I turns out I
just didn't even set the camera to like
be tied to the end cam. It was just
making the
cam. Well, now it initialized twice for
some reason.
the format I use for other models. I
think it's
okay. I think we're going to not
actually move the dozers to start
We've done some gem stuff for robots,
but we haven't done physical hardware.
We might be able to do some fun physical
hardware stuff with dish. We'll see. All
right. So, there's some dozers. They're
just
cubes. For
now, kind of at weird heights.
Oh, I'm not looking. What do you got? I
mean, I have cubes rendering on it where
the dozers are. They're at weird
There's probably they're probably not
aligned with the mesh as the thing,
right?
No, they're for sure not because you're
just spawning it and then it's just
drawing itself at whatever dimension you
can make. Well, I think that it's the
scale factor. Honestly,
I thought the scale factor is already a
part of the um Yeah, but there's like
the original function. The code came
with like this
weird. I mean, there are like things
here,
but they're not lined up with the map at
all. So, the map's probably like drawn
weird
somehow. All right. Don't use that dozer
I sent you. What? Don't use the dozer I
sent you. I'm in Blender and it came out
weird. The colors like
didn't sink
correctly. Let me see if I like the way
it looks.
Anyways, it's not a bad dozer. That's
actually a pretty solid
dozer. Yeah, for some reason the colors
didn't like actually work in
Blender. There's like a file issue or
something. Find a different one. That's
problems. There's a ton of them on Turbo
Squid. Yeah, there really are. Huh.
The ones that the low poly one is just
the free one, but there's obviously like
tons that are like 50 80 bucks or
whatever. Yeah, I don't mind buying
them, but like I don't know if there are
any of them that we like it's not good
to do like the realistic ones cuz it'll
look weird when the rest of it doesn't
look the same.
like actually you kind of got the best
one.
Yeah. Well, let me try to screw with it
in Blender because it's like not turning
out the
right. Go ahead and change it to proper
colors.
Okay. All right. There we go. This is
now. Now we're making things happen.
Yeah, we're making things
happen. Unfortunately, it's texture was
just like I don't know. There's an error
with it. So, I'm just coloring it
myself.
Do you need color codes?
Um, if you want. I'm just kind of
dragging on the color wheel right now.
So, it's um this the the color intensity
it's
187. So like red is 187 0 0 and the sign
is 0 1871
187 and then it'll match all the other
M's.
Well, I feel like it has to be yellow.
It does not have to be yellow.
Sure it does. Okay, fine. You can make
it You can make it freaking yellow for
now. But it's getting the puffer
treatment.
All right. It's getting the puffer
treatment at some point.
aesthetic. Okay, there we go. Now I'm
actually looking at freaking hex codes
and not just like screwing with random
things.
You said it's 187 0 0. Yeah, for red.
Well, not 0000. That's that's no
transpar. That's like full transparent
or whatever.
No, I mean that's fine. You just spent
187 for the red. But And then do you
know what it is for the the buffer deal?
Yeah, it's 0 187 187.
Oh yeah, that's what I
meant. Trying to figure out why this
thing doesn't line up the way it
should. Feel like this looks brighter
whatever. I just copy paste and click on
everything. It's the same.
tight. If only I could get it to load on
the right spot.
All
right, I'm dropping you dozer file.
Okay, I'm going to upload
this. All right, there's your file in
Discord chat.
Yeah, I just pushed to version. See if
you can figure out why the uh it doesn't
line up to the terrain. I'll get this
dozer loaded in in the
meantime. I can't figure out why it
doesn't line up with the damn
terrain. All right, let me play with it.
Do you know if there's a CLI command to
sync your GitHub?
What? No idea.
I'll chat to you later.
Yeah, nice job with this pearl and
noise. It looks
resources. Make a folder for
Terraform. Just did that as well. I I'm
doing loading. I'm loading the model in
right now. Spencer, I'll get that
working. Just can you figure out why the
hell the uh the cube doesn't draw at the
right position on the map?
Holy memory leak.
Well, I haven't we haven't bothered
freeing anything.
Okay, it doesn't matter at this stage.
Okay, I see tiny
cube. Do you want it to be tilted? No,
it's just it just doesn't it's not
drawing correctly. There are eight of
them and they there eight of them
randomly placed and they should all be
like level with the terrain wherever
they are.
Well, that's what I mean when you're
saying level. You're level generally
means like it's like if it's at a 45
degree angle, the cube will also be at a
45 degree angle. Yeah, we can do angle
after it actually renders in the right
spot. Like the height's completely
wrong. Okay. Yeah, this one looks like
it's floating. They they're all floating
or underneath the map right now.
dozer. Missing a
wheel. Wait, why is it missing a
wheel? It only has wheels on one side.
I have four wheels in the model, so
there's something funky that's going on
then.
[ __ ]
All right. Well,
whatever. There is a
dozer. Maybe I didn't export the whole
thing, but I'm pretty sure I
did. I sent you another one.
I highlighted the whole thing. So, we'll
see if that works. You sent me another
dozer. Yeah, it's bulldozer v3
now or whatever.
Bulldozer_v3. I think your location is
wrong because it should be based off of
a random index on the
map and you take the height from the
random index.
Yes, it should be.
So, I'm going do that.
Get the freaking wheel on it
still. We'll figure that
out. Got the height fix.
Not done.
Gotcha. But you see the bug?
Well, I presume the bug is just that
it's at the wrong height. Um because you
picked just random between zero and
size. I
mean, what I need to check out is Okay,
so how's the rendering of this going to
be? That's super weird.
So, do you have a Z going on here?
Right. Or what? Yeah, you have to. Okay.
Be XZ, I think. So, Z's are a
thing. Trying to Okay. Well, let's just
see what happens with
looks the source code. It doesn't show
you the source code.
Wait, you don't have a Z parameter in
your dozer struct.
Well, you don't have a Z in your dozer.
Well, the dozer doesn't need to know
it's The dozer is always on the flat
ground, right?
It's like always just at the height of
the terrain at that All right.
This is really weird that this isn't
drawing correctly.
Yo, this is freaking cool.
Whoa. What the hell? Yeah.
For some reason, cubes are still
spawning below Earth.
How was your experience at
MIT? Is it really
like I mean it's a weird way to sort of
look at it, right?
like PhD is kind of like you go work on
something for five
years if you're at a better school, you
will be doing that around generally
smarter people and with generally less
[ __ ]
like you don't go to any like any school
and like I don't know suddenly become
like a turbo genius or something as a
result. Yeah, I met some smart people. I
had an adviser who generally let me do
all the crazy stuff I was working on.
Um, and I'm now in and now as a result,
I'm in a pretty damn good position to
solve many of the open problems in
reinforcement learning, right?
Okay. So, draw a
model. Draw model has the red tint on
Cool looking. All right. How many did
you spawn with? How many agent?
Eight. All right. Do I count
eight? I need to fix these cameras.
These cameras really [ __ ] Three, four,
five, six, seven. Where's the eighth
one?
Are they above ground? Yeah, but I'm
trying to find the eighth one.
Let me push this then and then we can
merge.
I need to change this camera angle. It's
too uh
flat. Needs to be higher
up. Doing some dozer digging pretty soon
here. Why is this angle all screwed?
Get that merged. I'm going to go lift a
log.
bug. 100p. It has to be this. There's no
way it's not this this issue.
It has to be this. All right. Good. Send
us that.
heck? All right.
Um, I think once we actually have that
right, like we can almost start working
on the uh the mechanics of this thing.
No, almost. So, I'm sorry. I'm just like
triple confirming that this is correct.
And I'm to count like each of the
things. It's kind of annoying to No, we
kind of be dozing here.
All right. Always be dozing.
Look, it should be
fine. All right. Now, I'm going to play
your stuff and then push stuff.
I'm going to get the bots to move around
randomly.
Spencer, the puffer bulldozer isn't
isn't real. It can't hurt
you. Oh, come on. Why is there a merge
issue?
Feel like nothing you did should have
been like marking my file structure that
angry? Careful. I'm going to get another
committed if you don't hurry up.
Dude, you may you may just
Um, your issue with the thing was you
were your X and Y's are floats and you
were passing those inside of Oh, god
damn it. um the render as the access of
the array.
Huh. I thought that would I had a cast
on
it. I thought
I think it was just slightly off. All
right.
Cool. Well,
but if All right,
you have commit soon.
Well, here I have commit, but my thing
is behind
now. As soon as they can drive around
this terrain, we'll be in a pretty
decent spot.
Wait. So, what is it? 6
cm.
Six. 7 m. That's not
enough.
M 30 m starting point.
seg. Do you have a seg fold on yours?
Cuz I got a SE fold on mine.
shouldn't
be. But we have the occasional OS being
weird. Oh yeah, this does look like a
weird in clipping bug now that I'm
seeing it.
Right. Fact that it Oh, I am getting
some SEG bulbs. I can't tell if they're
the OS Seg bolts though or not.
I got I my render doesn't even run. It
just like faults instantly. Run it a few
times.
No, it doesn't even It just auto
sticks. Um, all right. I'm turning off
your thing for now.
Okay. Kind of weird that they go in
circles like this, but
All right.
If I get rid of step, does it ups
fault? No, it does not. Why is there
fault? Why? Why? Good sir, man. Why
couldn't you just wait like 10
seconds? All right. All
right. I will refrain from making
another commit now.
That's the problem. It's going to be
pretty cool if we can actually like get
this into a state where we can like move
the like modify the terrain and stuff,
you
know? Uh, yes, if my thing can actually
work.
Do you want me to push a seg to you?
Yeah. Give me push me
thing. We can get rid of these dozer
glitches.
IPR by the way. Yeah, I merged it. Oh,
okay. Well, I'm working on
uh camera.
Oh yeah, that actually they are
correctly height mapped
now. Look at that. Boom.
Wait, how's yours not fault? I don't
know.
That pushed.
All right. Okay. Okay. So, now we got to
figure out why the dozers are
like not
dozing. Rand give you rand gives you
randt.
Why?
Rand percent a number is should
automatically be an int.
I've done GPU drive for so long, like
without even thinking of it, I'll
automatically type build ocean GPU drive
even though I know we're working on
failed to open
display.
What? This is getting all the
same actions somehow.
failed to initialize
Sir, why did my Rail just decide to nuke
itself for no reason?
itself? No, that doesn't make sense cuz
my monitor would have
shut. Yo, we have randomly moving
dozers.
Dude, is that does it have the third
wheel again or no? Don't I I don't know
yet. How do you rotate the uh probably
have this logic
and power climb?
What are you trying to figure out? How
to rotate the
rotate. But you actually have to
RL. You have this push matrix pop matrix
thingy.
Yeah, I have to use that in a lot of the
MS I've done.
Okay, I'm restarting my computer. I
don't know why my thing just like
Sometimes you just have to play with the
right
dimension. You don't have a dozer Z.
It's dozer Y.
um what which what would it be also like
so you translate it to the
position and then you
rotate probably don't need this one.
You don't need to double rotate for
sure. Um, well, this is like Okay, so
what would be helpful is you start with
Okay, find what your base thing is and
then
apply the rotation and then apply the
rotation afterwards
again cuz like you need to make sure
that your your base model is rotated
correctly in the first place. Like is it
upright? Is it whatever? It's pointing
this way. Yeah.
So, is it is it correct? Well, it's
pointing this way. I don't know what
the model should just be exported to
point the correct way, right? Sometimes
it's weird.
And then I mean the main thing is it
should be I would
imagine
zero like a Y rotation maybe.
Um I did this in GPU drive. Let me just
look at how I did
it because I rotate per a continuous
heading in
that. Oh, you have to do heading times
uh radians to degrees because it's
expecting degrees in ray.
Was it radians two degrees times? Yeah,
it's it's heading and it's rad to de in
all caps. Oh, wait. It's 90 plus heading
times.
Why are you doing 90? That's what was in
your code. Okay. I don't know if it's in
degrees.
No.
RL rotate F.
What do you mean the negative 90? Is
that something I had prior? Yeah.
You're
reading the not in degrees.
Oh, I guess maybe then that we don't
need this offset, but we would see it
rotating either way.
This is just not rotating somehow. Well,
if you took the the the 90 plus from
Okay. Yeah. Yeah, you got rid of that.
Okay,
good. But that for sure is not rotating.
Isn't it? It should rotate around the Y
ais, I think.
If we're setting the
heading, that's a good point.
We see some
numbers that are like in a reasonable
range.
then this should like flip them at
least,
right? Doesn't flip them. Not rotating
them, isn't it? It's XYZ and then some
other stuff, isn't it?
or rotate F. The the heading the heading
should be the first parameter. Oh, okay.
And it should it should be heading and
then 001.
But wait, and one is the index or
something.
I think one is just
like I actually don't know what one is,
but that's what I had before.
Well, this is rotating the wrong axis.
See, I think I think the one is the axis
of which it rotates on. Well, then it's
the wrong one because it's it's tilting
it. Okay, then just make the one like
the X the the first zero or the second
zero, whichever one because you have to
rotate upon an axis and those are like
the axes.
Tim said this this is scale now.
I don't know.
No, no, no. You You're not rotating
anything if you have 00 Z. You have to
rotate on like either one. No, no, not
like that. That's not those It goes by
XYZ of the 002. Oh, okay. Looks like
this. So, if you try like one 0 0 or
like Z one 0 one, it's one of those.
Yeah, there it is. It's a common there.
Yeah.
All right. So I mean we'll see whether
this is like angled correctly, but
um it's like that's it's we have Josers
driving around. There's a seg. Let's see
where it
Okay, so there we go. That should be a
little more stable. I think we can start
doing digging
things. I mean, we have dozers that
drive around Mars
now. I guess it would be a little bit
more interesting to like If we did it
this
There you go. Look at that.
What's the What's the first action? Uh
the first action is the acceleration.
They don't seem like it seems like
there's like a rotation offset error,
but
I mean, they're moving. Yeah, they're
not moving like parallel to they're
facing
though. Could be a negative or
something. Hard to
say. We can get them to line up though.
How do we
I mean, I think first we probably want
to fix the direction it's facing. I
mean, we could we could bother fixing
it. Okay.
Um, how do we fix
it? Negative because right now we don't
know what direction it's actually going
in.
Are you are you
um binding your heading into radiance or
whatever? Uh it should be radian. Yeah.
Well, I'm not here. I'll show you it.
two when you set your steer? What's up
with the minus two? You do minus two.
Discretet uh goes from five to subtract
two. So it's 0 through four, which
centers it and then it scales
it. You can turn.2 radians,.1 radians or
0 radians.1 radians or radians.
You just want to take the dynamics I had
in GPU drive to a
cuz arguably what you're doing right now
is you're rotating
then now mind you I don't think my
physics was Honestly, probably that
correct, but at least you have move
expert in the C step by the way.
Yeah, I haven't gone back and fixed the
whatever it's called.
yet. This dynamics thing
And this dynamics thing, it makes sure
that you turn at a
Well, I think the problem is we have
some weird offset now, right? That's
like that's just going to make it even
harder for us to debug it. Like we
should probably use this, but once we
like have it actually facing the right
way. No.
Okay, I hear you. Let me try and look
through it. on this as to why something
like that would be
angled it should be facing like in the
positive X direction. The base model
should be
You can test this by just setting
heading to
zero, right?
Uh, okay.
Or it depends what you want your zero to
be, I guess, cuz that's
Okay, it's 180 degrees off. It looks
like it's just
backwards. They stopped gracefully. Oh,
dozers. Let's see if it actually still
looks good once we uh add the driving
opponent back.
minus. Yep, there it is. Got
it.
Minus. Look at these. These look cool.
just driving all over.
Actually, fairly smooth.
You may not even need to do the the
dynamics from the GPU drive stuff. This
may just be like reasonable.
All right, I'm going to give you uh
commit this up here. We are going to
going to do the next thing, man.
Let me use the restroom real quick. And
um yeah,
you're going to have to start thinking
about digging, digging of things.
Well, we just have to
know where it is.
Um, so we have there's a bucket height,
correct? There's a bucket height, bucket
width, length.
at bucket
V. But right now, this just lets you put
the bucket up and put the bucket down.
So now the bucket has a min and a max
height.
What do you think happens to the mesh
code when you start setting things to
zero?
The mesh
code? What do you mean?
I guess in my mind I always thought I
guess that we're just setting.
Are we just now going to lower the
point? You think?
fine. This I guess is in cubic units.
Let's say it can take one cubic meter.
Okay. So now what we have to do is
basically we have to figure out the
intersection. So here's what I'm
thinking, right? We have to figure out
the intersection of like where this
bucket is. The bucket is just a thing
that's stuck out in front of the dozer
and it's at some height. All right.
Yeah. So then what we do is we figure
out the difference between the height of
the terrain there and the height of the
bucket to figure out how much it
scoops.
Um or honestly we can just Yeah. I
think. Yeah, that's probably what we
should do is we should like Yeah. figure
out how much it scoops and then like
decrease the height there and put it
into the bucket
capacity and then like if the bucket is
angled down or whatever then instead it
drops dirt.
Do you want to hold off on the notion of
once the bucket is full it can't move
like keep getting dirt?
I mean it doesn't matter. Like what'll
happen is it'll keep driving but it
won't like cut any more dirt out which
is like not fully accurate but it's not
that bad.
Yeah. Yeah. Cuz we're not going to
handle like collision like impact of
terrain physics. We decided we're just
going to subtract, right? Yeah. And
literally once we get like the basics of
this, we can already train like basics
of this and some mobs, we can already
train agents cuz like the reward
function is super easy and we can just
like make the target map
flat, right? Um, you have to put you
can't do it flat because you have to put
um you have to put an area to be flat.
You can't do the whole map flat.
Well, yeah. You're not going to be able
to because the dirt isn't going to be
the right amount. But like Yeah, you got
to put dirt somewhere, right? Yeah, but
we'll just give them a thousand steps to
make it as flat as they
can. They just get reward for matching
the height map at specific points,
right? Yeah. Yeah. No, I follow that.
Like I think we can honestly like we can
probably have agents doing this within a
couple of hours if we uh if we don't get
too hung up on the logic for this little
bit.
Okay. Yeah. I mean the goal is kind of
just like get get something going and
then we can come back and argue about
like proper Oh yeah. handling of things
later. Well, I think the first goal is
to get something that's cool that like
looks like it's approximately doing the
right thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So yeah, now this is the the obnoxious
part.
So we need to figure
out No, it can't be that bad cuz all
it's just a bunch of offsets. Like you
you can set up a fixed offset of the
shape of the bucket. Yeah. So but here's
the thing, right? So we have
look. All right. So we have
just do it in we'll just do it
dozer and like it's at some angle. So
we're just modeling the bucket as like
this this thing here. Okay. And then
internally like there's a grid. You can
see that this blueprint paper has a
grid, right? So like what we want to do
is we want to like iterate
over these tiles here.
Okay. And then we can take dirt from
portion? If this were axis aligned, it
would be really easy. So, it's just a
rotation instead of it being axis
aligned, right?
What do you mean by that?
So, like if this line if it if the if
the robot like if the dozer were just
like this, it would just be these cells,
right? We would literally just be able
to calculate super easy.
It should just be the cells directly in
front of it and then Yeah. So, how do we
calc the cells directly in front of it?
I mean, dum dum way is just
automatically subtract the current
height by some fixed amount. No, it's
not the height. The height isn't the
problem. The height is that the dozer is
it's like at an angle,
right? So, we need like how do we
determine what cell is in front of it?
Well, that's a movement thing right now,
right? Because we have no Z, right? So
it's just like X. We're all just running
around in XY. So we have no angle of
like No, but there's an angle on the 2D
plane, right? So like these cubes are
tiny or like they're small cubes, but
like there are like many cubes in front
of the
bulldozer. Like how do we iterate over
like I don't know if we'll miss cubes
and stuff doing this, but can we just
like kind of hard to do like it's we
need to do like the intersection of this
line with the cube somehow.
The part that's tripping me out is
like the map itself is still just like a
2D array and then you have the height
map telling you where things technically
are. But if you're saying we're now
adding like a particle component, this
has nothing to do with the height. The
problem here has nothing to do with the
height. So this grid like you see this
is on blueprint paper, right? Yeah.
Okay. Okay. So, you see that this the
bulldozer intersects with some grid
cells.
Yes. How do we figure that intersection
out?
I just don't feel can't
you you know because you it's just a
fixed number. Like I don't know what you
mean. like this. You you you'll know
based off of the width and the length of
the bucket how many cells it's actively
touching. Well, that's what we need to
figure out. That's the math that we have
to figure out right now. Right.
It's some basic intersection
calculation. I just don't know what it
is.
Are you trying to do a line
intersection?
It's either going to be a line or a
rectangle, right?
just do two line intersections in the
front and the back or on all sides or
whatever.
Um I would think well what's the easiest
one to do? Is there is it an easier is
there like an easy formula for is this
cube touching this line segment or is
this cube touching like slash inside of
this rectangle? Like what's the easiest
formula? U I use one in GPU drive. All
right.
collisions. Check line intersection. You
you're calculating
vectors and finding if they're parallel
with each other. Yeah.
AAB. Oh, hold on. I need to mute you on
stream. All right. There we go.
So I think this is it right
here. Right.
Mhm. So this is this gives you the
points of uh the bucket. So this gives
you this gives you the cords of the
bucket.
I mean this is literally just
like this is a standard intersection
calculation. I just don't know what it
is.
So this is giving you the min and the
max. And then
is Okay. So I think this is not that
bad.
Um, all right. So, we have the dozer X,
the dozer Y.
Here we actually want to do this before
anything. So, like the first thing we do
is we
You're starting off by getting the
coordinates of the bucket. Yeah. Yeah.
So,
it's uh the X on the bucket min
is So, it's dozer
X. Well, [ __ ] We have to go in front.
It has to be in front of the heading,
right? So it's
like
bucket CX
equals Yeah, like that, right? Or and
it's dozer. I guess it's bucket offset.
Yeah, there should be a bucket
offset meters.
Are you describing the offset of the
bucket to be the the back of the bucket
or the front of the bucket? Uh center.
Okay. So then, okay. So you have this,
right? So this is your center and then
this is xmin is bucket
cx
minus the bucket width and bucket
height, I guess.
got
like fine bucket
width like 2 m or 2.5 m bucket length I
don't
Yeah, it should be divided by
two because if you're using the center
point Oh, wait.
Minus
plus my min is c y minus
this
plus. And we're going to have to like
draw all these things, I'm sure. Right.
Oh, for sure.
Otherwise, we'll have no idea like where
the thing is.
Okay. So now we have so we get the
bucket bucket a
b and
then now we can just iterate from xmin
xmax y min yax
right and then we have to do the test.
Are you doing a just a big comparison to
make sure it's inside of the range?
Yeah. And also, this is not in the
correct units either because this width
now is in it's in like grid cell units
or whatever. I think
I thought you just
[Music]
What is the base unit we're using for
the
uh the base unit? Yeah, we we haven't
like fixed it correctly. It's got to be
like scaled.
Now we have to do we have to do the the
check to see if it's in there.
You know what? Why don't we just like
This is kind of dumb. We should What we
should probably just do initially right
here. We can get the bucket scoop
aligned afterwards, right? Can't we just
like
Yeah. Okay. So, now we're just we have
the we have the thing that's in front of
the dozer and we're just going to take a
chunk out of
Are you just going to subtract it? Yeah,
I think so.
I don't understand what's going on in
this double for loop. Well, we need to
go over all this. Like, so what I did
here is I just I was lazy because I
don't know how to do this freaking map
initially. So I just did this. So here's
your dozer. Here's your your dozer,
right? So I just did this. All right.
This is what you're
That makes sense or no?
Okay. So, you just
scooped a 4x4.
Uh, I think it's a 5x5, but yeah.
right. So now we have load and capacity
here.
Something like
this. Add the load.
Okay, that's kind of how we take terrain
out,
right?
Basically, this is I feel like the
bucket height men delta math
is questionable.
is definitely questionable
cuz okay so you're you're taking in each
of those cell points you're like okay at
this
cell dirt is at this level which is the
map
height your bucket
height have we bucket height in this
case are we defining that as the height
from the ground to the bottom of the
bucket or the height of the entire
bucket from like the bottom of the
bucket to the top of the bucket uh it's
the lowest point of the bucket
Hello.
Hey, Aaron. We are on stream building a
terraforming sim. Cool. Um, Joseph, can
you and I set aside some
time tomorrow just to like do some uh
client stuff? Absolutely.
Great. Cool. I uh I should be working on
the release, but I basically am burnt on
release, so I'm doing a digging sim
today. Cool. Uh yeah,
I've I think we are close to
uh fuller results on the client stuff
for us.
Um and the LP is just not doing
anything.
Lovely. It works on the uh on the map.
It like does it do you still have the
thing where like whenever it's not full
solved it helps or not really?
So I have the thing where it where it
wasn't full solve it helps on the older
version of the
code. Um but once we did optimization of
both the code and the
hyperparameters it's breaking even.
So it's not hurting but it's not
helping. Correct.
I mean, it's possible that our base
algorithm is just really good, right? I
I I think that is true,
which would make sense considering that
we're kind of sodaing everything out of
the box. Yeah.
Um, now I do think there are more ways
to slice and dice the LPing that
eventually we might find a setting where
it helps
and where that really brings down to
performance. But even now, like in the
ways I've been doing it up till now,
which is sort of messing with their
configs and all that kind of stuff and
like put creating situations that should
be harder. Um I am bringing down those
like heart max curves or those those
heart curves. Um but it's bringing it
down uniformally.
So uh and then I was briefly chatting
with it's not that crazy like the thing
is it's kind of like we have a sort of a
form of it built into the advantage
filtering now, right?
It's similar. Yes. But a little bit
different but
similar. Um but the other thing right is
these maps are big enough and complex
enough that it's like it's it's almost
like what you get with neural 3 where
well that's why I said it should be like
you know you have a map that has like a
few objects in it and then you have a
map that has tons of objects in it. Like
if you scale on that there should be
some disparity.
Yeah. So, I did that scaling as well.
And
uh having tons of objects made the game
really easy. Yes,
that's expected. That's the easy
setting. And then and then whenever you
go down to like single objects on
everything,
uh every like it doesn't matter. Uh like
the curves are all getting to what I
think is the max and it's all the curves
with and without.
Oh, but is it actually solving like the
single because like you'd have to
actually see the agents running around
to go find the single resource converter
or
whatever they do that. Um, so I haven't
done any like I haven't taken a hard
look at that like of the trained
policies. I've been looking at all the
curves and [ __ ] That's probably what
you should look at because the thing is
if they actually go like run around
until they find the one converter on the
map or whatever and they do stuff then
we just full solve their end. So like
then it's like yeah guys you have to
like add more stuff now. We full solved
your problem. Yeah. It's like yeah we
have this other thing that probably
helps but like your problem's full
solved.
Yeah.
Which is
fine. That's totally
fine. All
right,
cool. We will uh we can do some stuff
like either later tonight or probably
tomorrow. Sound good? Um let's say
tomorrow I've got like the IRS mailed me
back my taxes.
Okay.
Uh why? I forgot to sign something. Ah,
very fun. And so I just I need to take
care of that because I want to mail that
back out today. So just like there's
some stuff I want to take care of while
I'm out doing that and that's going to
take me out for a decent chunk of the
day. And you know that there's no
withholding on any of this stuff. So
you're responsible for that. That's in
the docs, right? Oh yeah. Yeah. This is
for last year's taxes. Not none of what
we've been doing will come in until next
year. Reminding you. Yes. Yes. I I keep
half of all of it in a separate account,
which is just going to be taxes.
Yeah, there you go.
All right, cool. Thanks, Spencer. I
mean, thanks, Aaron. No worries.
Terraforming time. Terraforming time.
Later. Yep. later.
So, this is half of it, right? Like the
other half is the uh unloading.
I was still tripping about how you did
this because like if that's now the map
height plus the thing is the bottom of
the bucket and you're just subtracting
the map height minus the thing you just
subtracted from.
I don't know if I did it right. I just I
did
something cuz you effectively just did
dozer bucket height minus bucket minus
Delta or rather negative dozer bucket
height. Oh, what' I do? Uh delta is
delta is basically just negative dozer
bucket height with the current
math. You do map height minus map height
minus dozer bucket height.
Delta should just doer bucket height.
Yeah, it should literally just
be uh dozer. That's just negative dozer
bucket
height. Okay.
I'm not saying that's correct. I'm just
saying that's what you have right now.
So if dozer bucket height is greater
than
zero, this This
Oh, no, wait. It's literally just
doesn't bucket always be greater than
zero because it's literally just a fixed
number of
Dang it. I No, I'm doing the math
totally wrong, but here it's supposed to
be something
like I'm totally screwing this thing up.
It should be map height minus bucket
height,
right? For the for the actual delta for
the change in the map end map. I mean
here we can just do ifer bucket height
equal to
zero
load equals
Yeah. Fly is going to have to be have to
take a minute to murder this fly at some
point.
right. I think I killed it, but I don't
know.
Um, you're not using CX or Oh, wait.
Never mind. Never
this? We debug this and do something
with it
maybe. And
um we
do. So are you effectively saying
anything in front of
it? Assume bucket is you're on digging.
You're on like picking up dirt
mode. If you're in that collision
radius, you're dropping it by one
each time that it collides on the
height.
Uh yeah, we have to make this mesh thing
adjustable.
Well, isn't it created from or is that
fixed to create one time? You see this
Malik here? It actually mal
do well if you just get access to the
vertices
This is going to return a copy. Don't
want
Yeah. And then every step you're
updating. Mhm.
Yeah. Uh, okay. Bucket
CX vote. Vote.
Make sure we get good progress on this
man.
CX. This is bucket CX.
what do we think about digging some? I
think like this basic thing will work
and then we'll have to do there like
several more things we have to do
obviously, but
um I at least want to see the terrain be
adjustable.
And all these mesh like these have to
all
many. I mean, like, I could bother to
like figure out how to do this
programmatically, but like how often do
I have to do this Really?
and almost
done. So,
um I don't know. We're going to have to
get like the axis align version of it
obviously, but like we should pretty
quickly start to see like something that
actually looks like
um yeah, something that actually looks
like a digging sim. Pretty much as soon
as this code is correct.
What did I do wrong here? This obvious?
Um, size of mesh should not be a
pointer. It should just be size of mesh.
Okay.
Yep. And then this gives you a pointer
to it
work. All right. Well, the mesh got
[ __ ] No.
client.
Um well this has to you need to call
this to synchronize the data I believe.
do? I like I guess are you not allowed
to call this thing multiple times?
Okay. So, you're not allowed to recall
this apparently.
Oh, what if you just call update height
map
mesh one time the beginning to see if it
it still works?
This works.
Maybe you just take it, but it's very
slow.
But I think that this is
You could give
it just the cells that you're updating.
Maybe you give it just the cells. It's
not like there's something wrong with
it. It doesn't like that I'm calling
this trying to load reload an already
loaded mesh.
I uh I don't know how you're supposed to
do this.
I don't think what we should do with
this.
Like we have to make a new mesh. Is that
what it is?
You think kill a mesh make a mesh every
time? I don't freaking know, I guess.
Let me
see. We Let's say that we put this
here. Mhm.
Okay, so this runs. It's like uploading
the mesh constantly. It
runs probably leaking
memory. That does run
though. So, can we see if
um I can't tell if anything is actually
decreasing?
Maybe forcibly set all bucket height or
tilts to positive so that you know
everything should
be dropping in height. I think we're
going to just do
I think I got to go get my old chair.
This This is freaking killing my neck
being like down this low. Hang on.
Okay. So, where's our
uh where are our
dozers? Oh, they're underneath the map
cuz the map height is getting set to
zero.
Oh, cuz they're driving right on top of
the zero they just set. Oh, no. Wait,
they are. Look. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This
is
editing. I definitely saw it editing.
Yeah.
down. The
canyons will make it super
See? See that?
I'm still behind a couple seconds. So,
just let me
see. Definitely doing it.
I think it's making a cannon now. Canyon
now, right? Yeah. Look at this.
Okay. Yeah, it is.
All right.
So, now we have to fix things.
Let's see if that's
errors. Should be stable now
maybe. Yeah, look at that. This
cannoning.
That's totally making canyons, right?
Yeah, I think so.
Honestly, why don't we just
like fix this thing up, add some OB
spaces, and see if we can get it to
flatten everything.
Yeah, that'd be a simple task.
Leaking tons of memory.
Oh, yeah. We haven't freed literally
anything. Yeah. Well, the model is
allocating, I think, every time. We have
to figure out the mesh thing.
But anyways, let's get um let's get this
thing some OBS and actions and like
train some train some things, huh? Yeah,
because it can be set to a just keep
keep that action the way it
is or the way that like that dynamic the
the dirt loading dynamic is and it
should be fine enough to flatten the
whole world. Mhm.
We can just do like this is plus.0. I
mean, this is iterating over a 100
tiles. This is probably too big, huh?
Well, this is where it's like a little
unclear to me about the map dimensions
versus
like map dimension versus vehicle
dimension in the realm of the cell.
This is your reward tier.
I guess arguably you could say a cell is
just one meter or whatever one unit of
anything. Yeah, it can't be a meter cuz
that's too big,
right? But
anyways, compute observations.
Um, just a window. Yeah, around itself.
Maybe offset forward a little bit.
Yeah. I don't know. You want to make
like 9 10 x 10
And then what's that? Uh the annoying
trick
I guess you have to get current cell and
then index offset.
Yeah.
Um I think we should just do
maybe.
Okay, that's
it. Um,
and then we just do if pick
x. Wait, that makes no sense. That just
sets up a a thing around unless are you
trying to make the map really small.
What are you What's here? What?
In your compute observations.
Uh yeah, that's totally wrong.
Yeah, that makes no sense at all. Huh.
Yeah, it should be based off of the
agent X.
Can we just get the like
just get just get the agent and then do
agent X time M size plus Y. Agent
Y. It was so damn easy when I did it
here. What the [ __ ]
What do I do
here? Our offset
This is
I times
Where did you set vision?
Yeah.
work. I want to get like an agent
training
already. Okay. And we have to call this
inc, right?
reset.
Cool. So now we
um did you give it rewards?
I
think this Yeah, I gave it rewards.
Um, I guess we have to make a config for
this thing.
You leave whatever defaults are
in any of
this. Oh, we have to like rebuild as
well.
Uh yeah, for sure. And then you got to
delete the thing and do the whole
thing. And then copy
the file from the build.
no
[ __ ] This is no longer here, guys. like
is it's caching some [ __ ] I think.
Oh no, I'm dumb.
Map size doesn't exist. I thought it's
just size.
Yeah, but I think you still have to copy
the file over.
Okay. So, I don't know if it does
anything or not.
Why is it not um showing any SP like
steps or anything? Cuz I don't know.
Something's
wrong. Uh we probably can't use back in
it because it's multi- aent.
That's probably it.
Yo, I don't know why it doesn't give us
an error when we do that.
You got to do the offset thing, right?
Yes.
I already had that.
What? That doesn't make any goddamn
sense at
all. This is Does this call a net? Does
this not get
called? I think we have to call a nit in
our binding, don't
do. We normally have a Mayait inside the
binding
good. Oh, you're going to have to do all
the whole thing
annoying. Are you looking for the delete
build
command?
Now I can't tell if it's just taking
forever or hanging or
Okay. Oh, there we
go. Okay. So,
uh, by with the serial back end without
GDB taking making everything take
forever.
I feel Well, this is just 168. This just
gave us 168 million steps all at
once. Something's weird there,
Okay, so it's spawning a massive
freaking number of total agents for some
reason. What's your
horizon? That shouldn't
matter. Oh, wait. What? It's doing
262144 on from numbum
agents. I'm guessing in the pi file you
we may have multiplied it by something.
It's num self.num agents is num ms times
numbum
agents. That right? Oh, I found it. Your
num agents is a bug. It's num m* nums
right now. Oh, that'll do
it. Takes a while to gen the maps.
I feel like it shouldn't though. Why
would it be so bad?
It's generating like 512 512 x 512 pland
maps. Oh, you made the map bigger. Yeah,
big
map. Free invalid
pointer. Okay. I don't think we were
freeing anything. So, we freed zero.
Thanks,
Okay. So, I mean this was like doing
something and then
whatever. It's stuck. There no freaking
while loops
like stuff should not be able to get
stuck.
reset the reset should
be Oh, it does. It redo pearl and noise
on reset. You
see? Wait, why are you even calling
reset? Oh, you're sitting at max life or
something. Mhm.
So, it's fast until we hit the parlor
noise.
It's crazy it takes that long though,
right? That's what I'm saying.
I mean, I guess you are doing a for loop
through whatever 512 512 is 250,000 or
whatever. It shouldn't be that much.
Would you say this is about as long as
it takes neural MMO to
load? No, we uh we only have a couple of
maps there, though.
Okay. What if you It's a hack because
you're already doing 512 agents, right?
And you're doing random on the start the
first the pearl and noise is pear and
noise the first time. Only eight agents
on 512 x 512.
Why not just store the map, the initial
map, and then reset it? Use mem set to
reset back to the original.
that cuz you're already going to have 40
96 random instances anyways.
this.
Yeah, I think that should speed things
up.
We're going to have even more memory
leaks,
though. That shouldn't leak anything.
Uhhuh.
Okay. So, this now runs their
multipprocessing bug. Anyways,
you're on serial.
So, if I just do this, it should work as
well.
You just got to have change numbum
workers. I don't think I don't know if
you have enough workers. I don't know
what your default is too. Oh,
okay. It wasn't reporting any stats.
Well, we didn't log.
Oh, we haven't called ad log. That's
right.
right? You can do like this,
right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
But we need
um there needs to be like a reward or
something.
here. Okay, so this is
fine. We have end for
turns decent enough. Multipprocessing
got stuck at Yeah, something's [ __ ]
which is weird. It should not It's not
like that shouldn't be
possible. These bugs are going to drive
me crazy.
You're going to have to copy the file
over again.
is it going?
Yeah, it's going.
Stats are going infinitely up.
Well, how how do we get this to work
with multipprocessing?
do, but then we should get this thing
training faster.
Oh, it's going. Well, no. Actually, we
shouldn't have to set reset our logs.
All right, I'm back. Did you figure out
multipprocessing?
What are you What are you doing? You
going to try and eval this or something?
Uh, I don't know if this is the right
thing.
It probably
is. Okay, I got to kill this fly because
it's like I'm getting like increasingly
angry and it has nothing to do with this
code. It's just the fact that like my
skin is [ __ ] crawling because this
fly clip keeps landing on me and I
literally can't tell if it's there or
not.
You already have one of those uh like
fly traps in your I have some fly paper,
but I I need to just [ __ ] smack this
thing. It's like so like it's not even
there that time. It's like I've got all
these bug bites so everything itches and
like I literally can't tell when they're
it's just [ __ ]
ridiculous. All right. Like ridiculously
distracting as well.
apparently. Do we try to run the uh the
like f sanitize on it so that we can
actually get our model to run?
Yeah. You want to push me what we have?
Yeah.
Yeah. Actually, I'm going to just push
you some things and go fly hunting.
F sanitize is in there by default from
what I recall. In local it is, but not
when you uh compile
for for training.
go. See if you can find the bug.
Bug
hunting in a while.
All right. Find anything? I solved one
thing and there are more things to
solve. Okay. There's an address
sanitizer issue, but
cool.
Um, it's not saying where it is, so I'm
like hunting for
it. The the issue there's one issue that
you'll have that you have already that's
just uh plland noise is
declared after it's called. So you have
to put it before nit.
There's a what after you. So you know
how we change pearl and noise to have
original map. Yeah, you have to put the
whole pearl and noise function defined
above a nit. Huh. Okay.
But there's still more errors
um that I'm trying to find where it is
cuz for some reason the sanitizer is not
actually telling me
where. Saw yet another
fly. Great.
step? Did not get to step. Oh, no. It
did get to
step.
Okay. Stepped like 15 times and then
died.
And let's hope that's all of
them. All
right. Still more bugs.
I'm still trying to find this.
I mean, I just I just killed like three
of them, man. I don't know where
where you still got bugs to kill. I
still got bugs to kill. Still trying to
find where this stupid uh memory issue
is spawning
from. Wait, do you have five actions or
four actions?
Five, I think.
Are you sure?
it? Yeah. So, we don't get a proper
trace from this thing.
I think the problem is they're casting
actions. from five to four where I mean
from your your actions
are being casted as five but there's
only four actions. I see. Well, there's
one that's not being used.
Is that right? What's the one that's not
being used? I don't know. I have five.
Five 222.
Okay. Well, I guess that wouldn't be a
memory issue then. If it's if it's being
allocated as five, it technically stays
five. It just one's not doing anything.
Okay, that's not a problem.
Well, no. Do you have random actions?
True. And I'll have seated.
I mean, I guess that is possible. The
seed is not being changed,
basically. Okay, it runs all the way
through stop and is inside of compute
observations. So it might be an
observations memory allocation
observations. There's something
happening here that is not being
respected in terms of
The X offset is not stopping at the
edges. It's probably
exceeding. I'd put money on that.
The X offset.
Yeah, that's the problem. Uh, we didn't
do bounce checking for that. I guess not
do bounce checking on window. Okay.
Yeah, that's got to be it.
val. Wait, is that the
problem? Problem? It has to be the way.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Okie
dokie. Submit.
Yes. Yes. Voting happening.
You don't care about the free stuff,
right? Not yet. All
right, I will ship back
PRN is titled bugs
killed. Kill all
bugs. I'm like immediately in a much
better mood. Like I swear it's just the
freaking flies like constantly. It's
like somebody flicking your ear like
just randomly like once a minute.
fun. And I was like, did you just flick
my ear just now or did I just imagine
it?
Oh, wait. Did I do my bounce check
right? Did I? End of size.
Segaort, we have the same
error. We still have unaligned past bin
chunk.
Oh, hold on. I may have not actually
copied all the issues correctly.
Cuz X and Y max size should be the size
of the map, right? It I mean should just
just be size because we use size
squared.
What?
The size of the map is size times size,
right? So the X and Y max coordinates
should always just be size and then the
min being zero.
Okay. Max coordinate size minus one.
But so that should be still taking that
should take care of that issue.
Are you trying to put a
sky maybe?
32 bytes leaked in one
allocation. Yeah. So, this ohms my
entire desktop, by the way, if you let
it run for too
long, we have to figure out how to
uh how to fix that [ __ ]
Well, when I run test
performance, says there's still a leak
somewhere. Where is the
But we're not making the mesh an end
variable, are we?
it.
Right. It's in client. Oh.
Does the puffer train thing no longer
work?
But you have to rec like you have to
Boom. Okay, we have Mars.
Oh, nice. That looks
quick. Any bugs fixed?
I
mean trying to train it
now so I can have something to play with
on the eval so we can actually debug the
same thing.
I added all the freeze and such, but I
don't think that's a
train. Oh, free
invalid on what?
I've seen that. I don't know what's on
what
though.
Want to try and train
serial core duct
tight.
exploding. bufferlib.spaces is not a no
module found. Puffer liib is not a
package.
Um, what are you trying to run?
Trying to run
gdb. Yes, puffer lip space is definitely
the best package
setup. I can
get some indication.
Did you have the
Uh, you already did ship me
what? You want me to ship you the latest
things I have? I'm seeing
we ever get any fault. We get leaks. We
don't get solve the leaks on my end. Oh,
but the only leaks we have here, you
actually pushed it. The only leaks we
get are the um the Ray ones.
Um those aren't Ray ones. I solve those
leaks.
Usually Rail leaks like a couple hundred
bytes.
Those are the um
Yeah. I mean it it's the dozers, the
map, and the a couple things. Mhm.
and the mesh as well, which I freed.
But I can't get this thing to
um It's still breaking though when we
do here. Let me send you the one I have
right
now. How is there another like fly? Like
what?
I've killed five.
Yeah. So, we still get this
unaligned fast
All right, I put up a small PR for the
free allocations and stuff.
Does it run yet?
Okay. So, no, this thing still is like
consistently. It's not just model
dependent either.
Is it Did we forget something in
binding?
Maybe I mean this we should we should
totally have debug stuff for this. I
mean maybe it's worth us trying to
figure out how we can get the full
traces out of the uh the end to
Well, our binding isn't complicated. It
should just be
like similar as the breakout one, which
is just unpacking [ __ ] and
initializing. Okay. I don't think it's
the binding.
right, let me see if I can Yeah, I got
the thing merged, but like
terraform. I'm keep checking the source.
I'm going to try like getting some debug
tools going.
Okay. So, we have I have a a trace that
I don't know if this is a correct
spot. Um,
where is it saying it explodes? I have
something in just like end like in my
and
find doesn't make sense.
I'm trying to figure out if I can
finally get debug symbols compiled. I
have a possible idea. Uhhuh.
Um, our map values are floats, right?
Yeah. But we're passing a float into
observations. And observations is a
charar. Did it not just cast?
I don't know if it does automatically.
Oh, see if you can uh I thought it
would. You can uh check. What is puffer
capable of? very very fast reinforcement
learning that actually
works. We train it up to like I don't
know what some of our smaller ends two
to four million steps a second on one
GPU and uh we just have better
algorithms as well than your normal
defaults.
operand of type float cannot be cast to
a pointer
type. I did I do this wrong?
Oh 6887 7.41 is outside the range of
representative values of unsigned char.
Okay. So like divide and cast. I just
don't Oh, we didn't norms. I guess we
did no normalization.
You would divide it to like be within
that range.
Do you know what the range of values
that the pearl and noise creates can
fall under?
[Music]
No. Okay.
I'll just stick this freaking here and
here and here and we're going to just
see. I don't know where this R
goes. Thought it was a link ar, but it
doesn't make any
sense. What I'm trying to do is I'm
trying to compile this thing with debug
symbols so that we can actually like get
a proper trace into the C with this
thing cuz like normally we can but what
happens is that in the process of
building a Python extension somehow uh
setup tools like bullshits it.
Can I just make Do you have any issue
with me making OBS a float?
You can
try. Ideally, we wouldn't have to
because it makes it substantially
slower.
Yeah, we get we totally have extra link
arc. Oh, wait. Is this extension
quarks? Yeah, we totally have this in
here. All right. Well, this is weird.
It's like when I'm running the local
performance
test, sometimes it shows a leak and
sometimes it doesn't.
Uh, that's
weird. That's definitely not what we
want. Well, if it shows a leak
sometimes, then what's what's the one
that it shows? Sometimes it doesn't show
any like thing. It just says build IDs.
Doesn't give me any like lines to work
with.
That is so weird. Why is it like that?
Okay.
traces. If we could just get a trace,
this would be easy.
would say this just doesn't run which is
ridiculous.
Why do why does it say I have 10
trillion leaks? Why does
I don't know why.
Um, like this thing just doesn't run
when I I uh try to load lease.
So, this is apparently the
correct thing to preload.
So this is supposed to work but in our
case it just
breaks. Hang on.
Maybe maybe if I run without PDB Okay.
I mean this like is erroring in PyTorch
which is not what we
No, I'm not building the torch extension
with the uh the wrong
arcs. It's still getting stuck like at a
weird spot.
I got it, I think.
Hang on.
Ah, yo, I found it.
What was it?
It's um a bad mess set in uh C
reset. And let me show you the command
that I had to run to get this to [ __ ]
work.
now. Okay. So,
uh, did you push your stuff?
No. Okay, push your stuff. I found the
bug and I importantly I we're never
going to have this problem again.
Let me give you the command. Wait, I
think I did push my stuff already to
you.
This is how I had to run it.
Did you put that in chat or something?
Or did you Yeah.
I also had to compile with debug. I'm
going to push my
stuff. So now we no longer have to
guess. Like literally, this wasn't even
C being hard or anything. This was just
straight up the Python binds [ __ ]
like not giving us error
I still think the ops floats thing is
still possibly an issue. But what are
coding, bro? We are coding a digging
simulator. Really a terraforming
simulator, if you will. You will see it
in a
moment. Yeah, it was just bad OBS. It
was just a bad mem set on OBS.
It doesn't like M size times M size.
That's not how big OBS are.
Oh, yeah. You're right. Good c good
catch. Well, I didn't catch it is the
thing. I got a stack trace.
Okay. Okay. And that's what this new
command is. You have to rebuild with um
LD like the whatever.
Dude, this is a long command. Holy.
Yeah, I it took some uh some
figuring. Okay, so here we go. Here are
dozers. All right, they're
dozing. Now we can rerun
training. Maybe we can actually run
training correctly.
I still have some weird [ __ ] where it's
uh like spawning two instances of render
for some reason at the start as well. I
don't know what's up with that.
Did you get the multiprocessing thing to
work now? Uh, I don't know. I'm running
it. It doesn't seem to be doing stuff
yet,
but Oh.
Okay. Yeah. So, now it
goes. It takes a heck of a
while. Now we're at uh almost a million
SPS. So we'll see if this gives us
anything different, I
guess. It also should not just be going
up and up and up, I don't think.
Right. Uh
Why wouldn't it just go up and up and up
and up and up? It's getting rewarded
every time it basically moves.
Okay, then we should actually see it
consistently like doing better.
It should be. Yeah, it should just go up
until there's nothing left to
flatten. Assuming it actually trains.
Oh yeah.
um can't pass these from the CLI at the
moment. I have to fix a thing with
this like it passes everything as
strings.
Okay. So, they're just going in a
circle,
circle. Is that because it's resetting?
No, cuz they have 512 steps to collect
[ __ ] And the log should not just keep
going up if that's all they're doing,
right? So something's
weird. My guess may be the height map
updating. No, it's a render thing. Uh I
just set it
to Oh, wait. This is Hang on. There's no
check.
Yep. That would that would be an issue.
All right, let's see uh if we can
recompile and actually get it to do
something.
I think this is going to look like
really cool as soon as we, you know, get
it to do a thing. Can you figure out the
um the memory leak on meshes so that we
can actually render without oming?
Um I'm currently trying to hunt down
these like render memory leaks. Oh,
okay. So, you're doing it right.
It's saying they're saying that there's
so many leaks that I just don't even It
has to all be coming from the mesh, I
guess, because
everything else is freed some way
somehow.
Okay, I'll be right back.
right. I've been trained and now the
agents are training.
this. Nope, that didn't do anything.
Great.
Well, this is a more
reasonable. It's still going up very
much.
I would have thought that the max reward
should be like 600.
512. Why? Just like if they're always
gathering like 1.2 a step max.
uh they're now
like driving around doing things kind
I have to kill it before.
But like they're driving
around like it's definitely a different
learned behavior and it looks
semicoherent. So, as soon as we can like
actually do this thing, like we can
probably probably get some policies and
then it's like fine-tuning, you know,
it's a loop of fine-tuning mechanics and
training agents,
right? That could be pretty
legit. This could actually be pretty
damn good.
And I was really hope that was the thing
I fixed.
Let's see if I help you. Have you found
anything out with
uh meshes mesh free whatever yet or no?
I'm pretty confident it's because we're
creating the height map mesh every
render step. Yes. But how do we free it?
I'm having a hard time figuring out
because even if I try and free the
things inside of the mesh, it's like not
enough.
welcome. We are coding an excavation
simulator.
currently attempting to figure out why
it is memory
leaking. What are you doing in your
life? I am attempting to solve
reinforcement
learning. Having a good run of it as
well.
Something is
not not right here.
This will run. But I bet that this
memory leaks, right?
Oh, I might got I might have gotten it,
Spencer.
0.3
memory looks
good. One character
bug. The uh if client mesh not equal,
it's a not equal null.
See, I have that. But I still I also set
client mesh to
be Huh. You still get memory leak.
Yeah. Like when I exit from render, it
still says I have like 160,000 bytes of
Well, but if you do Okay, I haven't
tried that to be fair, but if there's
um I don't like I I'm looking at htop
and I'm not running out of RAM there.
We'll try running locally on the thing.
Okay. So, now we have some bots that do
things, right?
Like when you press escape, is it not
going to
I think we're going to be uh
terraforming to Mars here, you
No, that still has like mad leaks, dude.
Does
it? BFH top like smacks
you. The difference was before I was
oming 160 gigs. No, 128 gigs in like a
minute.
Well, one thing for sure I think is
probably wrong
is line 475 and each render step you're
making another client what
if if it's the client is null so you're
doing it one time I guess but I feel
like shouldn't that be done in make
client no that's the new that's the new
endbind thing because we client gets
made when you call render
Now let's see if we have
um graphs.
Well, possibly Not the most useful of
training curves, huh?
Uh, number go up. Mhm.
How I want to see if it curves.
If me percentage is low on on HTOP, does
that just mean that it's not leaking?
Should be if it's not going up over
time. I saw like 0.3 and it was stuck
there. Yeah, I'm at 0.6 six right now
and it's not really going anywhere.
Something is weird that this score is
just going up linearly though.
Would suggest something wrong with
logging, right?
up. Oh, I probably don't reset this
thing, huh?
again. I think the max should be like
600.
So, I'm pretty
sure cuz you should only be able to get
I think it's like 1.21 per time step
max. Mhm.
So, I think what was happening is it was
just like getting rewards constantly and
then it was just like it kept it just
keeps going up and up and up because it
never gets
reset. Oh, I reset it in totally the
wrong place
Okay, now we should get a Neptune run
that actually does something and we will
see whether curve go
So with the new binding style, you have
you're spawning an N you're spawning a
client in render. Uhhuh.
If you're doing that on the C side, like
locally rendering, you just call render
and then it'll make it for you.
And I guess you don't need to call close
client because that would be handled
inside as well.
Uh, I think you still you still probably
need to do
that. Oh yeah, that's a totally
different curve.
We probably need to look at
observations. We probably need to do
lots of stuff.
Yeah. Okay, I think it's time for
observation debugging. Let me push these
fixes for you. Now we actually have
logging. All
right. There the fix is pushed and uh
yeah this train curve no wonder we uh
are not seeing anything too amazing out
of
Okay, so this is our end. Uh, camera
needs to be fixed and centered. Yeah,
this is what the bots do.
Sorry, can you show that again? What the
bots are doing?
Um, oh, is the Twitch stream being
weird? Hold
but I mean, they're moving
around. We fix Kim.
Um,
map.
275 718
Okay,
cool. It's decent.
be? Camera position could be higher up.
I think.
[ __ ] What? What [ __ ]
Clipping
plan. As in you're trying to just move
the camera to like the right spot.
Something's very weird with the camera
cords, but I'll leave that for you.
Um, cool. Uh, I will start on
observations. See what's going on in
there.
I feel fairly confident the obs issue is
going to be the float to char
thing. Could be.
Now you're just going to divide it by
the
size. M size times M size or not M size.
But yeah, M size. Uh no, just divide by
M size.
Why is it by M size? It's the height.
It's the
What was the stream super far
behind? Probably comment on the camera
stuff I was doing. Well, I don't know
why the YouTube stream would be super
far
fine. Oh, this needs to get reshaped,
doesn't it?
what it's not like making the right
policy.
Don't know why it has a com 3D in there,
but
runs. I feel like you did that actor
function very differently than how I did
the GPU drive one. I'm just behind
because I got I got back from three
hours. What?
was back like Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. about five
minutes. All right. So, we'll see if
this does anything. So, this is now uh
data normalized
semi-an with small com architecture.
difference, it does take an obnoxious
amount of time to initialize stuff. I
will
Oh, I don't know if that's significant
yet.
really. So,
uh, you think it's getting reward shown
correctly
or is it capped out now?
I'm still waiting to see, but I think it
is. I think it's just stuck somewhere
between like 50 and 60.
given
the that we gave it? No idea.
It could be only gave it what 5 12 time
steps.
It could be.
And what's the maximum amount of reward
you can get per step?
Well, technically 1.2, but that would
require you to be like your whole digger
would have to be like 1.21. You'd have
to have the whole digger on new soil.
Okay. So, I guess next we
like do we like do some sanity thing? Do
we like sparsify the map or something?
Like what do you mean by sparify the
map?
do randomly set portions to
zero. Hang on.
Okay, this is obviously not what we
want. What was the Do you know what the
like
scale? Trying to figure out like how big
the map
is. Okay, this is
something still not
like flaps.
Can you tell if there are flat bits
here? Oh, no, there are. Right. Um, it
looks like there's a little bit of hills
somewhere.
Kind of hard to
see with the way that this texture is,
right?
Yeah. I mean, if you want, you can draw
something on the render again and if
it's equal to zero, make it like, I
don't know, draw a cube there or
something.
mountains. Okay. So now we can see it,
right? This is like sparse
mountains. What we think about
this? Let's give it a second. Like
catching up visually on stream.
We give it like something like this.
Yeah. I mean, that has like pretty clear
targets, right? Yep.
thing. Oops. I just saw the the script I
was looking for.
again. I'm going to give you these
changes as well.
Okay, I pushed these for you. I'll be
back. Need the restroom and uh flip the
thing and I'll be right back.
Spencer, how's this graph?
It doesn't look good, right?
No, that does not look good.
It doesn't look like they're like
getting better
at like seeking out the
uh the stuff, right?
Yeah. So, they're just like going around
and like not
really bothering to like seek out new
they're kind of still just going in
circles?
Let's see what they're getting. So, they
get this
reward and rewards of I get it's set
to plus
0.01F. We can make
sure like
16 times real quick.
right? These are like reasonable
rewards.
Yeah, I mean it's getting some. Not like
it's like it shouldn't be getting it
every single time. Well, it shouldn't
be, right? That's the map across all the
steps, right? Was it across all the
agents of one step? All agents of one
step. Okay. So, it's like possible.
Um is there possible that it's like
there's some jank thing with
multidiscreet?
Well, you did the multi-discreet action
different than I did in GPU drive. How'd
you do it?
Um,
it was summing the
actions. summing the actions
Let me put it in the
chat. That was my
uh actor in the torch.pie.
Oh, I don't know if that really makes a
difference,
but I actually don't
know how I have it at the moment.
What did you do? And do you split it?
Let's see.
data. We also just have not tried
hybrids at all.
You think the vision window is too
small?
I don't think so. It's But like So
there's some data there,
right? That looks like it sees a little
bit of stuff.
Oh, I have an idea. Mhm. It doesn't know
where it is.
It's in the center of its window.
Uh, unless maybe it's not. Did we not
center the window correctly?
if that would totally screw it up if
it's like the wrong window.
I just know that when I did stuff in
tower climb,
uh, what did I
do? I'm pretty
sure is this x comma y? Do we have
something flipped?
I think it may be the y is you're
supposed to
multiply y offset plus y * size plus x
offset plus x. We did x comma y format
though, which is like why I'm confused.
Yeah, it's Y time size.
Did you drew Did you try something?
No, I just went to go look at render and
and look at how we drew the dozers.
Well, I'm confused though because we
have the data is stored in X, Y, isn't
it? Or are we backwards?
The data
is what do you mean just one big array?
Um, and we do our index tricks to get
the right
I mean how do we index it? Do we index
it like
No, you just do y offset plus y times m
size. You know what? I'll try it. Let's
see.
I think it's lay reversed.
And then this one also.
Which one? This X and this Y or no? The
one in compute all observations. But and
then
also doing that. I need to look at tower
climb to find out what the right way of
doing that
is. We can even leave it on the the fast
version.
The OBS
idx should
that. All right, I retract my statement.
I'm wrong.
You can put it back to X time size and Y
times Yeah.
So,
like I mean something's wrong. I'm
pretty sure it can't
see like if I just comment the OBS out,
what
happens? Yeah. So, it can't see at all,
man.
It's like the same result with the obs
commented out
Uh, one way we can check things is we
could draw a line. Mhm.
To the height it
thinks things are
at. Maybe we can draw like around it, I
guess.
Can we do like like kind of like how I
do the lasers on GPU drive?
You need to put that inside of
the matrix, I think.
Oh, but then
um then we won't get to check to see if
it's actually
like Oh, you're doing it this way. Okay,
it's
fine. I thought you were testing
something else.
Okay, so this is how far they think they
can see.
Do the vision windows make sense or are
they too tiny? They could just be tiny.
It looks like it has no way of seeing
anything.
Well, the the vehicles are nowhere near
this big as the thing, right?
Like how big is this vehicle in units?
Think we ever I think it just I think it
just add its own position. I don't think
we have like a size on it.
wrong. Quarter size
dozer. All right. So, there we go. So,
this is like
They're in the center of this little
thing
now. Well, actually, maybe the dozers
are supposed to
be. I mean, this is probably very tough.
Right. I think they can't see anything.
All right. Blue
Mhm. If not, the other thing we can do
is we can dilate the ops. I was planning
on doing that
anyways. You know what I mean?
No, I don't know what dilating off
means. All right, I'll show you. It's a
cool trick.
Cuz like you don't want to make the
window huge, right?
it. Let's see if it Let's see what this
looks like if I do it here.
Wait, is it just allowing it to have
gaps and go a little look further? Yep.
Oh, that's kind of cool.
Okay. So now you see this, you see the
obs are dilated.
Dilate the obs by factor four
even. And now, yeah, there you
go. Now they should be able to freaking
right lower like lower resolution, but
they should be able to see.
Oh, for sure. Now they at least have
an
idea of their universe.
Let's see if it's still like
um if it's still bad.
If it's still
surprising. Maybe it's a little more
stable. It's hard to say.
I think it's probably pretty likely the
um obs are no
good cuz now this should be able to do
things.
Um you want to humor me with a concept
real quick? Mhm.
Instead of even having the whole end map
thing, just set it to one.
What?
Set the OBS.
Oh, the value if it like one if the map
is not zero or what? Yeah. One if the
map is not zero. Yeah.
that. And then we'll have to edit
the the torch model, right?
Yeah. To not like uber normalize it or
whatever.
15. That is suspicious. Mhm. I mean, it
can also be hypers and stuff as well,
right?
I guess so. Yeah. I mean, I would argue
maybe this problem maybe need more
entropy or something.
I don't know if you can know just from
like
Totally Perf crashed. See
Mhm.
And then that's numerical bug.
just make sure if we train with full
batch doesn't magically.
No.
It is interesting that they're all going
forward, isn't
it? Like they're not jittering around
and doing stuff.
So they've ignored
turning. Well, they're turning, but
they're like they're not
reversing. Unless I like No, it's We
have They can if they want. They just
don't.
Did you eval it off stream? I didn't see
anything.
No, it's just from like what they were
doing before.
Are we forgetting something in reset?
Could be.
So all I do in reset is I randomize the
dozer positions. I zero out the dozer. I
randomize the
position. I reset the
tick. OBS returns. And then we copy the
original map.
Okay. Doesn't feel like there's anything
missing from that. No.
And the score is like slightly higher
than before, maybe. So maybe we need to
just sweep stuff. I don't know.
Wait, wait, wait. I have I have an idea.
I think that someone's agree with it.
Um, hold the phone. I see
something. I see
something, but I want to verify it if
I'm not being an idiot right now.
environment. Oh yeah, your obs aren't
going to each agent. You only have one
ops for the entire thing that's shared.
You're
um you don't have agents times ops.
I have I
when No, no, no. When you initialize it,
your your observation size is only M
size times M size. What? It's not it's
not num agents times M size M size. when
I initialize it. Yeah, when you allocate
memory
here. Oh, well, this doesn't get used.
I'm surprised this doesn't break [ __ ]
but
Oh, I guess Okay, I guess you're right.
That doesn't get used in the pipe. And
also, it's this is huge. M size times M
size. It should be like times 121. So,
that's like Yeah.
I guess it should be 121 times numbum
agents, right?
And then
secondarily to that concept in reset,
you're not resetting each obs, you're
just resetting one. Okay, let me check
that. Hang
on. Take a look at this policy first.
Boom. Like they drive around a bunch.
Well, I guess maybe it doesn't really
matter that much.
They might kind of be doing
something
right. I mean, they're actually like
they're driving in a way that doesn't
seem like total
random. And it like I don't know. Oh, I
could be seeing [ __ ] [ __ ] or like not.
I'm trying to see from when watching it
if like the ones they seem like that
like they're like hanging out in the
region that has a bunch of
dirt to move. But like if you look at
there's like a couple of them that just
sit in an area where there's nothing
where the top is a bunch of stuff right
now. Then that left they're like eating
that pillar. They leave now. They leave
cuz they ate all the dirt. Oh, those
guys
don't. It looks like they eat that one
pillar and
then one guy gives up and stays in the
corner.
look? Okay, this starts to get slow
because the mesh unloading.
We definitely need to figure that out so
that we can
like do a giant Mars
Okay. Is it being reasonable or is it
not being reasonable? I don't know.
Nice to hear you're both articulating
your thoughts. Now we can learn more.
Yeah, sometimes when I'm doing fiddly
bits of dev, it's tough to like go
through everything. You can always ask
stuff though.
I want to just like set up a little
basic sweep while we're uh looking at
things just in case it finds something.
Yeah, that seems fair.
Also, we'll see if this does anything
good.
Okay.
But I think we should assume it
um observations, rewards, resets.
We took care of OBS. OBS is now like
as stupid simple as possible.
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. There's a big
difference between um this thing's
training at 1.5
mil the first sweep
Do you think the fact that it has an
action that does nothing affects it
learning or would it just learn to not
use that action? Well, when I'm evaling
it, I'm seeing it doing stuff.
Well, I know like you're seeing it do
stuff, but do you think that affects the
process of learning or is it just like
it'll just learn to only send out the
other the correct versions for the
other? I don't know. I mean, it needs
kind of needs one because it's supposed
to be able to pause in place and lower
the bucket and stuff.
It definitely should be able to solve it
because ourware had a vision of its had
like nothing and it could still solve.
Observations are messed up somehow,
right? Like Ar literally could only see
one square in front of its face.
Mhm. And it's an easy solve,
too. Like pretty immediate. It was Yeah,
it was pretty immediate. It didn't even
require like really much tuning at all.
Yep.
So, what do we think here?
There's possibly a question mark
on
maybe is the indexing wrong? I feel like
it isn't.
Maybe doesn't seem like it would
be. Okay, you loop through all the
agents at
each or each agent you're multiplying
by.
Wait, you're what the hell? Observation
size two
times
11. Okay, so that's 121. Okay, so that
should be
said you're going through agents. So
like that's going to make sure you get
the right slice to the right guy.
You're multiplying X times observation
size
because Y because that's getting the
right
index because two times vision plus one
is observation
size. Yes, it
And we haven't gotten any good results
yet, I don't think, from the sweep
either.
Plus, so that should be able to get
it. So that'll be your
syntax here.
learn. Trying to think what else it
could be.
For a second, I was thinking maybe like
the bucket location was wrong, but I
think that's okay. We're seeing it
harvest harvest stuff, right?
Could it be getting actions wrong
somehow?
possible be receiving the actions wrong.
I we see it like doing reasonable stuff
is the thing. It's a little sus that
we've not seen it like reverse at all.
And you're confident reversing is
possible?
It should
be. Oh, hang on. We've got
a got an opportunity here.
every step we're setting rewards to
zero. So that's
I thought that there was a check to pass
that there was. I don't know
Always your data either it's going into
the endg or it's coming out of the end
frog every freaking time.
That felt like that like changed
recently or
something. Or maybe we just never see it
because h some screwy there for
Would that cause an issue here? Think
maybe. Would think so.
Good. I don't know what else it would
be.
I mean, it would have to be screwed up
because
like I guess it actually depends on the
initial action buffer DT type, not the
final one.
I know. It's not
like we're not seeing anything like
major
Yeah, self actions is the correct D
type.
D type that error gets thrown. Yeah. So
it was cast incorrectly basically. So,
it was coming in from torch float 64,
but then we were it was getting cast
anyways.
But seemingly that hasn't changed
anything.
Yeah. No, no, no. Like it was fine to
begin with. It's like there was an
error, but like it got cancelceled out.
Okay, so it's running around.
It's ideally it sees something that's
pretty much a one. It should run towards
the one.
Yeah. So literally all this does it sets
the pointer to the action pointer as
well.
Well, there are params that do way
worse, but I don't think that this means
it's good.
Um, well, one thing that I did in
Rareware that we haven't done here is I
still give it the location
of the car or the
robot in the ops before the vision as
just like another part, just another
thing to add to
ops. I give it I give it its
um its location and the direction it's
facing. Yeah, you could give it its
heading and stuff. That would
probably be useful though. I mean, it
does. It has an LSTM,
right? Should be able to learn to store
that.
Maybe it can't
tell. It probably can't tell. You're
right. Let's give it the additional uh
the additional obs.
Yeah, it's just it's just plus one. And
then we you're going to have to change
we'll have to change the torch. Wait, we
give it
heading velocity. give it a heading and
it's the cell that it's in in the
velocity.
Then we can add a flat layer that
connects the vision to this. Well, you
want to give it like XY velocity
heading.
Uh I don't even think you have to give
it XY really, but I
mean actually no, I think you do for
Uh what did I what did I get for GPU
drive in RWware? All I gave it was the
cell
position. I give it self position and
then the the um this is continuous like
there's sketchy things that go on.
Well, not really.
I'm mostly concerned that you can't
actually see very well like immediately
around you.
Yeah, you can just add the thing to the
back of it. It'll probably be the
simplest
right. Well, let's see if that makes a
difference. I have to still edit the
network.
Oh. Uh, it's a char. So, we have to do a
weird
thing,
right? Yeah, we have to do something
weird here.
And this is like pi
50. Okay. So, we'll see if this does
anything.
What's the point of that? Well, it goes
into a uh un 8 range, right? And then
has to get reormalized.
M dozers. Oh, M do M dozer's eye.
Uh hang on.
Unsigned. What' I
do? Unsigned car and apply as float.
this we didn't update the network at
all, man.
Let's run it with proper size and see if
this does anything. So far from
sweeps, yeah, it's pretty insistent that
uh there's not much
Okay, so this does like noticeably
worse than
before, but maybe there was some
learning signal in it previously.
All right, I'm back. I was on a call.
Mhm.
The name of the Mars mission.
Uh, yeah. I had to go talk with Elon
real quick. Yeah. Yeah.
He said he'll fund the venture. Oh,
awesome.
Did you agree to the uh puffer fish
habitat extension?
Yeah, but only is that if we solved the
bug we're currently working on. Ah,
[ __ ] Okay, we got to do that then.
And that's tough. Good bargain. All
right, that's a hard bargain. I'm a good
negotiator.
So, was giving it vision to nothing? Uh,
it's doing worse now. Really? Yeah. So,
I think something is screw with the odds
if it's doing worse, right? So, it
shouldn't be doing worse from that.
Like,
yeah, that seems
weird. Wait, what?
Yeah, it doesn't seem right.
This would mean that they all have x of
zero or
us. That doesn't
seem Hang on.
So
it's 512. So
255 by 5. It should be the dozer X like
divide by
two. Oh, it is. It's
Okay. Then this 114 which should be over
two. Yep.
confused. Oh, hang on. Wait. Isn't this
this one's wrong? Right. This is I times
total
observation
size. Oh, this is
I think I'm doing this wrong somehow.
Total OBS should be 125 for sure, right?
Mhm. So then it's I times. So I is
zero should be
121. Oh yeah. 121. There should be at a
um the X
zero which it should be at
121. Observation size times observation
size
Yeah. So, it's writing to um the wrong
spot here, and I'm trying to figure out
why.
Huh? Oh, I must have done something like
stupid here, right? No, I didn't.
What? Yeah, it's somehow it's wrong and
I don't understand.
I have a potential idea. Yeah, going
crazy.
Okay. What if total
obs and the way that it's being set up
as its uh like weird constant thing is
doing a order of operations thing where
it's multiplying 0 times the first thing
and then adding four at the end.
Um
and so it's not doing like I times zero.
It's doing like or it's not doing zero
times the value the whole value group
together. It's just doing zero times the
observation size and then leaving the
plus4 afterwards.
Where is even where is the plus4 even
and total obs?
Oh god. Damn it.
But that shouldn't still that's to even
do it.
It's the only thing I could think of
having a a bonus four
somewhere like put a parenthesy around
total observation size and the whole
thing. No, no, no. Around the plus four
as well.
Oh yeah, it must be doing that. You're
right. You're totally right. It must be
doing the
Okay, we'll just We'll double check. Let
me
recompile. Yeah, I This is why we
shouldn't be using macros. Like, it's
just dumb,
right? This wouldn't have happened if we
actually computed the damn value of a
constant.
there. I've been meaning to use um con I
don't know why the hell I didn't do
that.
Good old PM doss never
fails. I hope this is it. That's the
only thing I can think of.
Let's see if this at least gets us back
to the original 16. Yeah, cuz I think
there was a difference. Like when we put
screwy data in, it got to only 14.
It's weird that they have like they
can't stop as well. Like they're just
going.
it's probably just cuz like the it's
like they
excel. Yeah, we probably just need to
screw with some dynamics as well.
Like the movement's probably pretty
weird. Let's at least see if this does
anything
first. So, four
runs.
Confirming that we are not doing any
better than
17ish. Oh, and I messed this up. But at
least we can see.
Yeah, those are reasonable OBS 1D
params. That's
The last two are zero because they're
not used at all or
uh it's first step that doesn't have any
velocity and initial heading of zero.
Got it.
So, it doesn't have any ability to like
turn or do anything like it doesn't have
any ability to like slow
We'll see what this does
first. But if this does like 17 or
Oh, 18. Oh, hang on. Look at that.
That's We've never seen a 20.
Huh. So, yep. It just couldn't tell
where it was. Good
I have some more ideas. It weirdly
collapses like from like 23 to 20. And
then
it's doing things though.
It looks like it's at least improving.
Well, I don't know. It dropped to 19
now. Now I'm scared.
It will be
decimation of much
terrain. Fine tune this a bit. See if we
get something cool out of it. And then
we can uh maybe this is dozen.
So, can you explain the whole like char
to float thing that you're doing with
the times 40 and times 50? How do you
know that that's like give it a
reasonable correct number? You only have
255 values to store stuff in a char.
Yes. So, you should probably try to put
your data into a 0 to 255 so that when
you normal like squash it back down like
you at least get some reasonable
resolution.
So, like if I go if I go try to put the
value like five, uh, if I go try to put
like the value like 5.5 into a char,
right? Mhm. I'm only going to get five.
Okay. Okay. Now, if I multiply it by 40
and then I divide by 40 on the other
side, I'm actually going to get
something a lot closer.
to like what the the original value
should be like. Yes.
And are you dividing by 40 in the
torch.py right now? I'm dividing by 255.
So I'm like trying to get them roughly
to the range of zero of to like 0 to
255.
Okay. Yeah. So, that's a nice trick to
know.
agents. These are apparently
terraforming a bit better than
before. They are kind of fun to watch.
We should definitely get the uh the map
like render working nicer. Um but let's
get there's one more experiment I want
to try
first. So I just want to give them the
like I want to up their acceleration
speed.
Do you think if
um due to the dilation if it's like
right in front of
you, there's a chance you won't see it
anymore?
Absolutely. I want to see if this
actually helps him out at all.
Now they should actually be able to like
stop like do
things and then if this works then what
we'll do is we'll run the sweep on this
and then we will uh do some work on E
N.
Yes, it's 5:31. I have dinner at 6.
Okay, that timing works cuz I got to
head out relatively soon as well.
Okay, but we will have the initial
version of this
end. a very simple initial prototype
uh
training and then I mean honestly the
more the more important thing I think is
going to be like the you we can do like
the initial digging capacity stuff
really easily before we have to do the
geometry for like axis aligned or
whatever this or
that but like we got to get like the
scale of it right and all
that I also would like to get the
rendering to actually look like
reasonable cuz I kind of just threw a
random pearl noise map at it. It like we
actually have to render based on height
and such.
It is based on height. What are you What
are you talking about?
Uh the coloration is not based on
height.
Oh,
it's just a random pearl in map.
So like the texture when you're applying
the
texture, this suddenly does way
worse with more speed, more ability to
accelerate.
Yeah. Unless maybe it just takes longer
to learn something.
I think being able to like stop and
collect all the resources in an area
would be useful. No,
I don't see from your change how that
would have
actually your goal. Well, if it's if it
takes like 10 steps to accelerate, like
to decelerate, it might just not bother.
We could also make the thing just not be
able to drive through um piles of stuff,
right? Pretty darn easily.
What? Like if you check two behind? No.
If you just like if you're if you're
trying to move into dirt and your bucket
is full, you
can't. There are a lot of things we can
do to like make this just a bit better.
Okay, let me fix Let me revert um the
thing that I did because I that doesn't
seem to have helped. like heard it quite
a bit
All
right. Solid.
Does it want to sweep right now or are
you just rerunning the same pram to make
sure it works?
Is it done? Uh, we have something that's
doing us like it is training. Yeah. Perf
20. That's impressive.
You have no idea of the scale.
from zero to one, isn't it? No, not in
this one. Oh, okay. How can we compare
them then? Oh, whatever.
We've been working on this a day. Yeah.
Give it a second. I'm just giving you
crap.
All right. So, this is now
Neptune
Terraform. Boom.
So, this will run a sweep
hopefully. And I think we can start with
that. Um, you know,
potentially working on the full
smoothing end, right? Like the full like
the full terraform end like um having it
like pick up the dirt and then put it
down instead of just deleting dirt. It
runs over.
Oh, you mean to like actually start like
having a target map? Mhm.
Well, not just having a target map,
right? Like it should be able to
actually Right now it's just driving
over stuff and deleting it like load the
bucket, drop dirt, like all that
proper terraform amp.
Does it eval? If we're doing proper
terraform, arguably, shouldn't we never
reset?
No, you can reset arbitrarily. Yeah, I I
think you can reset arbitrarily because
you can gen different maps,
but yeah, you could do it as just
continuous as well.
Okay. So, this will just this will
train. Hopefully, we're good on
this. Is the code pushed? Can I Can I
try it or when you want to want to demo
it for
Oh, it's on dev. Um, bet we should also
like we should fix the uh the damn
camera on this thing.
Okay.
So, get me to fix the
camera. But these guys will run around
and attempt to flatten
everything. It's like pretty darn smooth
the movement, huh?
Uh, is this is this trained or is this
just Yeah, that's trained.
I can't see them flattening stuff. Uh,
camera's shitty.
Oh, like are the little hills getting
smaller?
Yeah. So,
I still feel like as like just how it is
currently which is like kind of like a
fine resource
problem. It should be still doing better
though. Yeah. Yeah, it should be. But we
will uh we'll see from sweep and then we
also have stuff to fiddle with.
It is training.
I mean, one parameter change on gamma on
GPU drive makes it like learn nothing
versus learn something pretty much.
Yeah, it's gamma for
you. Is this camera like not what I
think it
is? I like I don't understand how the
hell this camera works.
Yeah, cuz like we want to be
Well, you want to be above, right?
Yeah. Or like
But when I enter these params in, it
doesn't freaking work. Like, I don't get
this view when I enter these params.
Yeah. So, it's probably not what it
looks like.
um turn off dilation, it'll if that will
actually change anything because now
that it knows like where it is.
We can definitely try that
now. Zip
compile time only. Okay. So, we have to
scale some things, I
think, to get the uh the camera to work
the way we want. I can just get
something that's like decent for now.
How do you want it to work? You want it
to work like Photoshop where you kind of
can like zoom in, drag around, rotate,
perspective. Well, it's just the
camera's clipping.
I don't know what you mean by clipping
in this case. Okay, look. You see this?
Oh, on the out. Okay. When you're Is it
when you're too far away? Yeah.
This is fine, though. I'll do this for
now.
cube. All right. Now, do you want to try
dilation?
I can do
that. Uh what would we say? Dilation.
Yeah. Yeah. To make it okay.
Just not have it. Yeah.
What's your mini game represent? It is
uh we're working on an excavation
sim. So, the goal is going to be that
you have uh a initial landscape and then
you have a target landscape and you move
all the dirt
around to terraform, I don't know,
terraform Mars or whatever.
It'll be
I too love pressing the up arrow until I
can find the
command. What's going on
here? Terraforming
Mars. We'll see if this works in the
meantime. All right, so we've got this
N. Oops. We've got this N
here. And uh these are just random cars
at the
moment. But yeah, the landscape here,
you can see it's not rendered amazingly
well yet, but um here, let's see if you
can see like them cutting through some
of it. Yeah, so they just cut a pathway
right through there. See this
pathway also. Yes, do start the repo.
That helps us out a lot. It's all open
source.
It's weird that some of them like just
sitting in the corner. This one is uh
No, this is random.
This one is random. Oh, this one's
random. Uh, yeah. I I set it on this
because I can't scroll the camera around
on the other one. Mhm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I got you. So, they're always set
to digging, right? They're always
digging.
Yeah, they're not they're not uh it's
just at the moment it's just bulldozing
over everything.
There's no noop.
I think technically there is a noop
where you can just drive and not dig.
Oh, no, no, no. It's digging is always
on. Digging because it may it may be
more efficient to drive and not dig
sometimes.
So far, it seems like it's done better
with the
dilation. But it's actually learning
stuff either way. Now, let's see the uh
let's see the
Neptune. Okay, so yeah, but the graph
looks a little smoother on this one.
I think
it's still climbing. I mean, it's at
like 19 now.
Okay. So, here are here's the new sweep.
Okay. So, do they have to be moving to
bulldo or so far? Yes. because we were
debugging stuff.
Cuz if they get bull in place, they
might just stay on the ground and No,
cuz it just deletes all the dirt and
they don't get any more
reward. I mean, it's not done obviously,
right? Like it needs to be so that they
move dirt around, not just like eat
dirt.
Well, the dirt's just going away right
now. Yeah, it's like Pac-Man. We're just
trying to get it to see if we can like,
you know, train like have some basic
thing training before we make the sim
super complicated. That would that would
make that would make sense. Um, yeah,
just saying performance is looking
pretty comparable.
Yeah. I mean, we can try either way.
We'll probably just stick it into a
sweep, right?
Yeah. All right. Maybe it's not as
comparable.
Sweep has not discovered anything too
amazing just yet.
How long are you running experiments
for? 100 mil.
Okay. Oh, okay. Maybe dilation does help
because this thing looks like it just
entirely collapsed. I think it's
probably just like poorly tuned other
params, right?
All right, let's go add the dilation
back in because
Yeah. What did I say? Was it four? Yeah,
it was four. Yes. Yes, it was four.
I know you don't want obs to be big, but
what if you did like a super wide
dilation and then a really small for
like fine grade around
you at some point?
I mean, yeah, we could just come up with
a formula that does that.
So, what does dilation do?
Uh, it's Let me show
No, there are white dots around the
agents. He's waiting for the stream to
catch up. Yeah. So, it can see
everywhere there's a white dot.
So, it's an 11 by 11 grid, but it's not
dense. It's sparse.
Yeah. It doesn't need to see every
point, though. All it needs to see is a
point that's higher than the other
points dirt wise. Yeah. So, it should be
able to do that from this grid.
Dilation is just spreading them out
then. Or Mhm. pretty much. Yeah. Why
don't Why don't you have just like
really big sort of
sparse views?
This is what that is. I mean, I could
make it bigger. How big how big how big
is that like IRL since you're making
this on like a actual measurement basis?
No idea yet. We have to scale things
correctly
cuz like I don't even think the dozers
are the right size at the moment. It's
just like it's whatever it is at the
moment. When I'm driving, you know, the
the skid steer, I don't need to see six
centimeters, you know? I need to see
like 10
feet. It might work. It might might work
better with it spread out. I mean this
is
like this is 40 some odd units wide I
think. So I whatever that is
I want to say I think I agree with what
it's Spencer correct
on
the Oh dude. Yeah.
uh on the because like I get what Bet's
saying and like I need to see like 10
feet around me, but like as you get
closer to things is when you pay more
close attention to like your immediate
surroundings and as you get
further then like less attention on the
minute detail.
There you go. Let's add
attention. Joke, Joseph, I got a dip in
like five. Yeah, so do I, man.
All right. I mean, this is like decent
progress. We will see. Uh we'll see if
anything comes out of the sweep. Uh
there's still some fiddly bits with
sweeps at the moment, but we will see if
anything comes out of sweeps. And then
yeah, we uh this is like a decent base
for New Sim. Like I think we can
probably get uh get it doing a bunch of
things if we just make the well improve
the fidelity. Anyways, so uh is there um
I'll just do outro now.
you want me to kind of do as a next
steps if I just like find myself working
on it at times? Yeah. So, the the
commented block of logic where it's like
fill up with dirt and then like you know
drop dirt probably that. Okay.
And I would just make it so it can't
keep it can't go forward if uh the
bucket's full and it's pushing up
against dirt. So, if it's trying to pick
up more dirt and the bucket's full, it
just gets stuck. that'll like you'll
actually see it have to like reverse and
stuff
then. Oh, for all the folks watching
this, this is all uh free and open
source code. We build puffer lib is
ultra high performance reinforcement
learning toolkit. You want to help us
out for free to start the repository on
GitHub. I will put the link in chat, but
it's also just
puffer.ai and click the button there to
join the
discord to get involved with
development. It's a good way to learn RL
if you're new and it's a great way to
contribute to science otherwise. Uh and
other than that you can follow me on X
for more reinforcement learning content.
So thanks and I will be back